# Exercise 1.14

A tree illustrating the process generated by `(count-change 11)` (actually `(cc 11 5)`) can be found in a separate `.jpg`-file.

For the general time and space complexity analysis, let $a$ be the amount of change to be given out and $n$ the number of different kinds of coins available.

The space complexity is $\Theta(a)$ since (i) the longest path in the recursion tree is equal to the solution of giving out the change in pennies and (ii) the length of this path is $a$.

Let us denote the time complexity of `(cc a n)` by $T(a, n)$.
Clearly we have $T(a, 1) = \Theta(a)$ since the resulting recursion tree is the path from $a$ to zero using only pennies.

Let us assume that $T(a, n - 1) = \Theta(a^{n-1})$. Then consider the time complexity of `(cc a n)`. One path that the recursion tree yielded by `(cc a n)` contains is the one where $n$ is kept constant and $a$ is decremented by the denomination of coin $n$. In case of `(cc 100 4)` this path would be `(cc 100 4) -> (cc 75 4) -> (cc 50 4) -> (cc 25 4) -> (cc 0 4)`. The length of this path is proportional to $a$ (but also inversely proportional to the denomination of coin $n$, which doesn't matter here). Each node on this path yields two children: the next node on the aforementioned path ("children on the path") and a node where $n$ is decremented by one ("children not on the path").

Given the induction assumption, the trees starting from the children not on the path each have time complexity $\Theta((a-d_nk)^{n-1}) = \Theta(a^{n-1})$ ($d_n$ is the denomination of coin $n$ and $k$ is a non-negative integer).

Since there are $\Theta(a)$ of such trees, their total time complexity is $\Theta(a^{n-1}) * \Theta(a) = \Theta(a^n)$. The total time complexity of the children on the path is $\Theta(a)$ since each such node contains a constant amount of computation. Thus, by induction, the time complexity of `(cc a n)` is $\Theta(a^n) + \Theta(a) = \Theta(a^{n})$ in general.

Since `(count-change a)` plays with $n=5$ different coins, its time complexity is $\Theta(a^5)$.
